---
title: Beware Of Predatory "Help" For Student Debt
---

In recent years, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has reported that student loan debt has climbed to more than $1 trillion dollars, which is nearly three times what it was 10 years ago. The biggest factor here is that more than half of recent graduates are unemployed or underemployed. Many are working at low-paying jobs which do not require or utilize their expensive college degrees, leaving many young Americans struggling to pay off their student loans.

There are certain situations where your federal student loan can be forgiven, canceled, or discharged, but these options are rare. To find out whether you qualify due to your job, disability, the closure of your school, or other circumstances, visit [here](https://studentaid.ed.gov/repay-loans/forgiveness-cancellation).

If you recently graduated, you may find that you qualify for an income-driven payment plan, or Pay As You Earn (PAYE). This plan caps your monthly federal student loan payment at 10 percent of your discretionary income. If you have older loans, you may qualify for an income-based repayment (IBR) which calculates your debt in comparison to your income and family size.

Student loan forgiveness is free though it is not always possible. Scammers target innocent victims, especially those who are desperate for options. They will claim that they know how to help you and will promise relief from student debts, but this often comes through misleading advertising, hidden fees, and questionable consolidation loans.

Students can obtain additional information or submit a student loan complaint at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) [website](http://www.consumerfinance.gov/students), or you can contact Hillsborough County Consumer Protection at (813) 903-3430 for more information.
