---
title: Keep Your Child's Personal Information Safe
image_src: https://commbocc.github.io/CDN/images/consumer_tips/01-cpt-monday.png
# link: '#event-url'
---

According to the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, more than 50,000 children in Florida are victims of identity theft each year. Children are targeted 35 times more often than adults by identity thieves because they generally have clean credit histories, and many years may pass before the crime is detected.

The _Keeping I.D. Safe Act_ blocks thieves from using a child's personal information to open a credit card, mortgage, or other financial account. To create a credit report for your child and freeze it, contact the three credit reporting agencies: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. The fee to freeze a child's credit is $10. If your child has already been the victim of identity theft, the fee is waived.

This new tool may be particularly valuable to current and former members of Anthem, Inc. affiliated health plans. In late January 2015, Anthem learned of a cyber-attack to its IT system where cyber criminals may have accessed personal information of members and their families. Attorney General Pam Bondi's Office urges parents and caregivers to take extra precautions to protect children's identities due to the insured's insurance information being compromised, which put dependent's social security numbers and personal identification at risk.

For detailed information on the law, to receive tips on how to stop identity theft before it starts, and what to do if your child's identity has been compromised, contact the __Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services__ at 1-800-435-7352 or contact Hillsborough County Consumer Protection at 813-903-3430 for more information.
